
<h2 class="sectionedit1" id="logs">Logs</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
I&#039;ll be using this section to keep track of the my progress, save relevant links and references, keep meeting reports, etc.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT1 SECTION "Logs" [1-144] -->
<h3 class="sectionedit2" id="specification_phase">Specification Phase</h3>
<div class="level3">
<hr />

</div>

<h4 id="week_3_3-mar">Week 3 | 3-Mar</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
I started to specify the <a href="/thesis/doku.php?id=wiki:repastfipatool" class="wikilink1" title="wiki:repastfipatool">FIPA tools for Repast</a>, namely, I created the UML for its architecture. An architecture similar to <abbr title="Java Agent DEvelopment Framework">JADE</abbr>&#039;s was followed: an interface for all <abbr title="Agent Communication Language">ACL</abbr> initiators and responders, and interfaces that extend this one for each <a href="/thesis/doku.php?id=wiki:jadefipaobjects" class="wikilink1" title="wiki:jadefipaobjects">class of communications</a>. 
</p>
<hr />

</div>

<h4 id="week_2_24-feb">Week 2 | 24-Feb</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
Change in work plan. During this week and the next one, I will also explore Repast Simphony and <abbr title="Java Agent DEvelopment Framework">JADE</abbr>, test a few examples and create a list of functionalities that I want to convert. First task will be to understand which <abbr title="Java Agent DEvelopment Framework">JADE</abbr> objects allow the use of <abbr title="Foundation for Intelligent Physical Agents">FIPA</abbr> <abbr title="Agent Communication Language">ACL</abbr>.
</p>

<p>
<a href="/thesis/doku.php?id=wiki:jadefipaobjects" class="wikilink1" title="wiki:jadefipaobjects">Some interfaces provided by JADE to use FIPA ACL</a>
</p>

<p>
<strong><abbr title="(Eclipse) Java Development Tools">JDT</abbr></strong> allows to easily create projects (including classes, methods and fields) using Eclipse plugins. It&#039;s then possible to loop through all projects and access their properties, methods, etc.
</p>
<hr />

</div>

<h4 id="week_1_17-feb">Week 1 | 17-Feb</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
This week was used to read and test code conversion tools. Unfortunately, I only covered some of the functionalities of <abbr title="(Eclipse) Java Development Tools">JDT</abbr>. <abbr title="(Eclipse) Java Development Tools">JDT</abbr> seems to be the best choice for this thesis. However, I decided to change the work plan. Instead of resuming the study of code conversion tools, I found that I should first create the mapping of <abbr title="Java Agent DEvelopment Framework">JADE</abbr>&#039;s and Repast&#039;s functionalities before proceeding. 
</p>

<p>
<a href="http://www.programcreek.com/2011/01/best-java-development-tooling-jdt-and-astparser-tutorials/" class="urlextern" title="http://www.programcreek.com/2011/01/best-java-development-tooling-jdt-and-astparser-tutorials/"  rel="nofollow">Includes many tutorials </a> about creating plugin projects in eclipse and about using the java development tools.
</p>

<p>
<a href="http://www.vogella.com/tutorials/eclipse.html" class="urlextern" title="http://www.vogella.com/tutorials/eclipse.html"  rel="nofollow">More JDT tutorials</a>
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT2 SECTION "Specification Phase" [145-] -->