
<h3 class="sectionedit1" id="reports">Reports</h3>
<div class="level3">

</div>

<h4 id="first_semester_report">First semester Report</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
This reports contains the details of the literary review and definition of the work plan. To summarize, this report proposes the development of a tool that converts a <abbr title="Multi-Agent-Based Simulation">MABS</abbr> created in Repast into <abbr title="Multi-Agent System">MAS</abbr> that uses <abbr title="Java Agent DEvelopment Framework">JADE</abbr>. Conversely, it should allow the conversion of a <abbr title="Java Agent DEvelopment Framework">JADE</abbr> <abbr title="Multi-Agent System">MAS</abbr> into a Repast <abbr title="Multi-Agent-Based Simulation">MABS</abbr> as well. This tool is useful in the context of development of a <abbr title="Multi-Agent System">MAS</abbr> whose development started as a <abbr title="Multi-Agent-Based Simulation">MABS</abbr> or when the need to create a simulation arises during development. <abbr title="Java Agent DEvelopment Framework">JADE</abbr> and Repast were chosen for this thesis not only for their quality but also for their widespread use.
</p>

<p>
After this introduction in Chapter 1, Chapter 2 starts by discussing some related work about <abbr title="Java Agent DEvelopment Framework">JADE</abbr>, Repast and about integrating both frameworks. While the motivation for this thesis pertains the improvement of <abbr title="Multi-Agent System">MAS</abbr> development methodologies, its goal is to convert the code from one framework to the other. Therefore, a large part of this thesis will be about Java code transformations and part of the state-of-the-art review is related to code transformation tools.
</p>

<p>
Chapter 3 includes a detailed work plan for the following months and describes the details of the development environment as well as the definition of how the final product will be validated and evaluated. Finally, chapter 4 includes final notes about this report and about the work done so far.
</p>

<p>
<a href="/thesis/lib/exe/fetch.php?media=wiki:ei10009.pdf" class="media mediafile mf_pdf" title="wiki:ei10009.pdf (569.6 KB)">ei10009.pdf</a>
</p>

<p>
<a href="/thesis/lib/exe/fetch.php?media=wiki:first_semester_slides.pdf" class="media mediafile mf_pdf" title="wiki:first_semester_slides.pdf (114.6 KB)">first_semester_slides.pdf</a>
</p>

</div>
